Balance internal commodity nodes (heat/steam networks) via first-class balance groups (#2289)
FlexMeasures/flexmeasures: documentation/tut/multi-commodity.rst

.. code-block:: json

    [
      {"sensor": 6, "commodity": "gas",         "coupling": "chp", "coupling-coefficient": 1.0, "power-capacity": "20 kW", "production-capacity": "0 kW"},
      {"sensor": 7, "commodity": "steam",       "coupling": "chp", "coupling-coefficient": 0.5, "power-capacity": "1 MW", "consumption-capacity": "0 kW"},
      {"sensor": 8, "commodity": "electricity", "coupling": "chp", "coupling-coefficient": 0.3, "power-capacity": "1 MW", "consumption-capacity": "0 kW"}
    ]

Here each kW of gas input produces 0.5 kW of steam and 0.3 kW of electricity.
The gas port is import-only (``production-capacity: 0 kW``) and the steam and electricity ports are export-only (``consumption-capacity: 0 kW``).

**Internal nodes.** A commodity that lists no energy price in the ``flex-context`` (e.g. a steam or heat network with no grid connection) is treated as an **internal node**: its devices must balance each other at every time step, so everything converters produce into the node is consumed from it within the same step.
Give such a commodity only an ``inflexible-device-sensors`` entry (its fixed demand), or omit it from the ``flex-context`` entirely.

> 

Author: Added to the tutorial too, in the internal-nodes paragraph: electricity is always assumed grid-connected, so missing electricity prices raise an error rather than turning electricity into an internal node.

The ``coupling-coefficient`` on each port fixes the conversion ratio relative to the shared coupling variable, so the ports always move together.

For example, a CHP that turns gas into steam and electricity:

.. code-block:: json

    [
      {"sensor": 6, "commodity": "gas",         "coupling": "chp", "coupling-coefficient": 1.0, "consumption-capacity": "20 kW"},
      {"sensor": 7, "commodity": "steam",       "coupling": "chp", "coupling-coefficient": 0.5, "production-capacity": "10 kW"},
      {"sensor": 8, "commodity": "electricity", "coupling": "chp", "coupling-coefficient": 0.3, "production-capacity": "6 kW"}
    ]

Here each kW of gas input produces 0.5 kW of steam and 0.3 kW of electricity.
Each port gives exactly one directional capacity, and that is what marks its direction:
the gas port only consumes, and the steam and electricity ports only produce.
The opposite direction defaults to zero, so it does not need to be written out.

Note that the capacities agree with the coefficients:
20 kW of gas is the most the unit can burn, which is what caps steam at 10 kW and electricity at 6 kW.

> **Internal nodes.** A *non-electricity* commodity that lists no energy price and no capacity (grid-connection) field in the ``flex-context`` (e.g. a steam or heat network with no grid connection) is treated as an **internal node**: its devices must balance each other at every time step, so everything converters produce into the node is consumed from it within the same step.

Author: ```suggestion
**Internal nodes.** A *non-electricity* commodity that lists no energy price and no capacity (grid-connection) field in the ``flex-context`` (e.g. a steam or heat network with no grid connection) is treated as an **internal node**: its devices must balance each other at every time step, so everything converters produce into the node must be consumed from it within the same step.
```

Author: Applied verbatim.

> Give such a commodity only an ``inflexible-consumption`` entry (its fixed demand), or omit it from the ``flex-context`` entirely.

Author: ```suggestion
You can still create a flex-context entry for such a commodity to define ``inflexible-consumption`` and/or ``inflexible-production`` (its fixed demand and supply) without FlexMeasuresassuming a grid connection is available. Alternatively, omit it from the ``flex-context`` entirely (fixed demand and supply can also be set up with flex-models of their own).
```
Maybe with a cross-reference to a section showing how to set up a flex-model for inflexible consumption/production.

Author: Applied verbatim, and the cross-reference you suggested now exists: `features/scheduling.rst` has a labelled subsection, `:ref:\`inflexible_devices_in_flex_model\``, on modelling an inflexible device in the flex-model.

That guidance was previously two unlabelled paragraphs inside the group-constraints discussion, so nothing could link to it. Promoting it also let me add the part that was missing — when to use a flex-context entry versus a flex-model one: site base load is a property of the connection, a device sitting under a particular inverter or commodity is a property of the device.

Electricity is the exception: it is always assumed to be grid-connected, so missing electricity prices raise an error rather than turning electricity into an internal node.

> This is how a whole factory is scheduled end-to-end: an e-heater and a boiler feed an internal ``heat`` node, a steamer converts heat into an internal ``steam`` node, a CHP also feeds steam (while exporting electricity to the grid), and a fixed steam demand closes the balance — priced commodities (electricity, gas) at the grid, unpriced commodities (heat, steam) balanced internally.

Author: What does "this" refer to?

Author: "This" had no referent — a genuine dangling reference. It now reads "Internal nodes and coupled converters together are how a whole factory is scheduled end-to-end: ...".

Author: With "is scheduled" it still reads as if we just discussed a whole factory. We didn't. Besides, not all factories look like this. This paragraph is presenting the idea of how these features lend themselves to cover more complex cases like a whole factory, but such a case is not actually discussed in full in the docs. We don't need to describe it in full, but I agree it is still valuable to hint at the possibility. Rewrite the paragraph accordingly.

Author: Rewritten — you were right that my fix only changed the verb, not the claim.

The paragraph now says what it is there to say: coupled converters and internal nodes **compose**, so chaining them describes an industrial site, and getting there needs no new fields — only more entries of the kinds already shown. It states plainly that we do not walk through such a site here, and that yours will not look like anyone else's.

Dropped the specific e-heater/boiler/steamer/CHP walkthrough entirely. Describing a topology in one sentence was what made it read as a summary of something the page had covered.
